README.md, before:

# TüBa-D/DP release 4

## Introduction

TüBa-D/DP is a machine-annotated dependency treebank of German. The
goal of TüBa-D/DP is to offer high-qualitity syntactic annotations for
a huge amount of contemporary German text. TüBa-D/DP attempts to
provide familiar annotations by following the TüBa-D/Z annotation
guidelines (Telljohann et al, 2006) as closely as possible. TüBa-D/DP
currently consists of the following subcorpora:

| **Subcorpus**                                 | **Genre**                 | **Sentences** | **Tokens** | **Download**                                                                           |
|:----------------------------------------------|:--------------------------|---------------|:-----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Europarl](http://opus.nlpl.eu/Europarl.php)  | Parliamentary proceedings | 2.2M          | 55M        | [Download](http://www.sfs.uni-tuebingen.de/a3-public-data/tueba-ddp/r4/europarl/)      |
| taz (1986-2009)                               | Newspaper                 | 29.9M         | 393.7M     | Contact us                                                                             |
| [Wikipedia](https://de.wikipedia.org/) (2019) | Encyclopedia              | 42.2M         | 849.5M     | [Download](http://www.sfs.uni-tuebingen.de/a3-public-data/tueba-ddp/r4/dewiki-201901/) |
| Common Crawl (2019)                           | Webpages                  | 1.4B          | 27.3B      | Contact us                                                                             |

Each subcorpus has the following annotation layers:

* Part-of-speech tags
* Inflectional morphology
* Lemmas
* Topological fields
* Dependency relations

A description of the annotation format can be found in the
[stylebook](stylebook/stylebook-r4.pdf).

## Licensing & availability

* The Wikipedia subcorpus is licensed under the
  [Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0
  Unported](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/legalcode).
* The Europarl corpus is provided by [Philipp
  Koehn](http://www.statmt.org/europarl/) and as part of
  [OPUS](http://opus.nlpl.eu/Europarl.php). Terms of use are described
  on the [Europarl website](http://www.statmt.org/europarl/).
* The [Common Crawl](http://commoncrawl.org/) subcorpus is publicly
  available. However, due to the size of the treebank (203 GB
  compressed), we do not provide a download link here. Please contact
  us to download the corpus.
* The Taz subcorpus requires a license from Taz. Please contact **us**
  to obtain more information.

## Questions

Please send any questions to `daniel.de-kok@uni-tuebingen.de` or
[create an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/sfb833-a3/tueba-ddp/issues).

Commit message:

Common Crawl: annotations are available

README.md, after:

# TüBa-D/DP release 4

## Introduction

TüBa-D/DP is a machine-annotated dependency treebank of German. The
goal of TüBa-D/DP is to offer high-qualitity syntactic annotations for
a huge amount of contemporary German text. TüBa-D/DP attempts to
provide familiar annotations by following the TüBa-D/Z annotation
guidelines (Telljohann et al, 2006) as closely as possible. TüBa-D/DP
currently consists of the following subcorpora:

| **Subcorpus**                                 | **Genre**                 | **Sentences** | **Tokens** | **Download**                                                                           |
|:----------------------------------------------|:--------------------------|---------------|:-----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Europarl](http://opus.nlpl.eu/Europarl.php)  | Parliamentary proceedings | 2.2M          | 55M        | [Download](http://www.sfs.uni-tuebingen.de/a3-public-data/tueba-ddp/r4/europarl/)      |
| taz (1986-2009)                               | Newspaper                 | 29.9M         | 393.7M     | Contact us                                                                             |
| [Wikipedia](https://de.wikipedia.org/) (2019) | Encyclopedia              | 42.2M         | 849.5M     | [Download](http://www.sfs.uni-tuebingen.de/a3-public-data/tueba-ddp/r4/dewiki-201901/) |
| Common Crawl (2019)                           | Webpages                  | 1.4B          | 27.3B      | Contact us                                                                             |

Each subcorpus has the following annotation layers:

* Part-of-speech tags
* Inflectional morphology
* Lemmas
* Topological fields
* Dependency relations

A description of the annotation format can be found in the
[stylebook](stylebook/stylebook-r4.pdf).

## Licensing & availability

* The Wikipedia subcorpus is licensed under the
  [Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0
  Unported](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/legalcode).
* The Europarl corpus is provided by [Philipp
  Koehn](http://www.statmt.org/europarl/) and as part of
  [OPUS](http://opus.nlpl.eu/Europarl.php). Terms of use are described
  on the [Europarl website](http://www.statmt.org/europarl/).
* The annotations for the [Common Crawl](http://commoncrawl.org/) are
  available. However, due to the size of the treebank (203 GB
  compressed), we do not provide a download link here. Please contact
  us to obtain the annotations.
* The Taz subcorpus requires a license from Taz. Please contact **us**
  to obtain more information.

## Questions

Please send any questions to `daniel.de-kok@uni-tuebingen.de` or
[create an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/sfb833-a3/tueba-ddp/issues).
